Fascias are soft parts of connective tissue.
Even tendons and ligaments are fascial structures.
They go through our whole body
as a white fiber network.
Fascia fulfills diverse tasks.
They help us keep our upright position
holding organs in the right position
they transmit mechanical attractive forces
and make sure that muscles and organs
they could slide freely in the gel-like substance.
Fascias are nothing new.
Especially in complementary medicine
such as acupuncture, osteopathy,
or even in healing
fascias have been known for a long time.
But in classical medicine
the fascia is rather neglected - the reason is,
that they cannot be accurately quantified.
Muscle tissue with its structure
resembles fresh orange.
The whole muscle is wrapped in a hard case,
similar to orange peel.
But even individual bundles of muscle fibers are
as well as the fruit pulp held together by their own membrane.
Fascia can be understood as a sensory organ.
You could even say that from the point of view
perception of our body
the fascia is the most important sensory organ.
It is particularly important for coordination.
If I don't see my arm,
yet I feel if I still have two three centimeters
until the end of the movement.
I can feel how far my right arm is
stretched forward or backward.
This perception is primarily transmitted
fascial thrust receptors.
There are also important cells in the fascias,
which enable them
adapt to different situations.
They can create more lubricants as needed,
or even more fibers.
And the creation of lubricant is really fast.
New research also suggests
that in manual therapy, yoga,
Lubricant formation can be activated within minutes.
In the absence of movement
or incorrect posture
creating fascial cells little lubricant
fascias may stiffen
and the individual layers can be glued together.
Because they are connected as a spider web,
can cause pain
throughout the locomotor system.